>> Richard Feldman: So
we're gonna add a few things here.
One is helper functions.
A pretty broadly
applicable concept in Elm.
The concept of similar versus the same.
HTML message with an unbound
type as a source of reuse.
And finally, HTML.map and command.map.
That's sort of the most powerful tool for
use we have.
Okay, like the previous section, this is
gonna be the second of three where we have
immediately going to the code, and
looking into the examples there.
Okay, so when we talk about reuse,
we're talking about essentially
the notion of identifying some code
where we're like, you know what?
I wanna use exactly this code
in multiple different contexts.
That could be a piece of the view,
maybe we have some UI elements that
we want to share, some UI logic.
It could be just some business logic,
something that update does that we want
to do in a couple of different places.
There's a few different boundaries
across which we can share things,
we can share within a particular module.
We could have some code that only
exists in that particular module, and
is used elsewhere in multiple
places in the module.
We could have some code
that exists across modules.
Maybe it's on a separate module and
it exposes some stuff that several
other modules import and then reuse.
Or even at the package level, we could
have a package that has a bundle of
reusable things that we will import and
maybe use some of them.
Fundamentally though,
the toolset that we're going to use for
each of those is sort of the same
no matter how we're doing it.
The sort of bread-and-butter most basic
tool that we have at our disposal is
the helper function.
So helper function essentially means
I've got some code that I want to write.
And in the course of writing that
code I realized, you know what?
There's a subset of this code that would
do better if I were to split it out and
make another function whose
sole purpose is to help
me out with the function I was
originally trying to write.
So that term can apply to all
sorts of different functions.
But the general gist of it is
that it's not something that I
am exposing directly for others to use as
sort of a first-class part of the API.
Rather, it's sort of an implementation
detail of something else that I'm doing.
Now in a lot of cases, helper functions
have nothing to do with reuse,
they're just something that's helpful for
implementing one function,
they're not used anywhere else.
But a good example of when they
can come up in cases like reuse is
when we have two things
that are quite similar, and
all that's different about them
is a little bit of configuration.
So for example,
we have this Favorite button.
So the Favorite button works on
a couple of different pages.
This is when you want to be able to click,
this is a favorite article of mine and
I want it to show up in my Favorites.
So I can render one of these things, and
the only real difference between
the two is in terms of their styles.
So one of them looks like a dark green,
the other has sort of a white with
light green outline type thing.
And the way that we specify the one or
the other is by giving it
a different CSS class.
Everything else about these things, the
favorite button or the unfavorite button,
is exactly the same.
So we sort of consolidate all that
logic in this helper function,
which deals with putting that
class together with this like
onClickStopPropagation thing
that we're doing.
And also the HTML
structure of this thing is,
needs to be at a particular configuration
where it's a button on the outside and
an iTag on the inside in order for
the CSS to work out.
So this is a very basic example
of the helper function.
We've split out this function just for the
purposes of helping out these two other
functions, favoriteButton and
unfavoriteButton.
This is the type of helper function
that is only used in this one module,
it's only used in those two places.
But it does its job well enough, and it
prevents us from having to maintain these
two things separately, or worry about the
implementation details being different.
That's sort of a way of saying,
yeah, we have decided that these things
should share a good enough chunk of
code that we're gonna split out
a separate function to do it.
And that's all there is to it.
Another common use is for
dealing with update.
So let's say we're over here on
the Settings page and there's a pretty
common operation that we're doing,
which is we are updating a form.
So there's a lot of form fields on this.
There's email, username,
password, bio, avatar, and
all of those have a pretty
common operation that they do.
Which is that the user types some piece of
text into a text field or a text area, and
we just wanna write it down in the model.
Later on we'll validate it, we'll send it
to the server, do all kinds of nice stuff
like that, but for
now all we need to do is write it down.
And since the operation of writing it down
essentially involves just taking the form
out of the model, updating one field in
it, and then putting it back in the model.
We've written a helper function here
that does not only that, but also,
as a convenience, returns Cmd.none because
all these things don't do any effects.
All they do is update
one model in the form.
This is a one-liner.
It's doing nothing more than saying,
update this one field in the form based on
the transformation function
that you've given me.
And I will return that inside
of a tuple with a Cmd.none so
that we don't have to write
that every time up here.
Worth noting that there are some
interesting trade-offs around this as far
as some of the stuff we talked
about in the previous section.
So this updateForm function, on the one
hand tells us that we are returning
a model and
a Cmd.none which is pretty broad.
But there's actually an interesting
opportunity here to say we
can actually promise that this
does not return a command that
has a message associated with it.
We can say, yeah,
this returns a command, but guess what?
That command still has
an unbound type variable,
it's not actually going
to produce any messages.
It's not quite the same as saying it's
doing nothing because this command right
here could potentially be,
for example, a port command.
There exists commands that do something,
they just don't produce a message.
So if we wanted to, we could actually
narrow this type a little bit further.
So that's an opportunity for
a refactor there.
But in general, the fact that we
are returning this does mean that this
is sort of a less narrow
type than it could be.
So if we're looking for culprits and
we're trying to debug something and
figuring out why some weird thing is
running a command that we didn't expect,
this is a potential culprit because
we've chosen to do it this way.
Now, the trade-off there is that if
we didn't put it inside updateForm,
we'd have to put Cmd.none
in each of these.
Now, the advantage of doing it this way
is they're all sort of centralized.
So I know for a fact just by knowing what
update form does once I can say okay,
all of these lines of code,
without even glancing at them,
I know that they're not
running any commands at all.
Otherwise, I would need to say okay,
I'm trying to figure which branch
of update is resulting in commands.
I have to now scan through each of these.
So it's a trade-off.
On the one hand, I've made this helper
function less narrow than it could be, but
I'm doing that because I expect it's more
likely to come up that I'm trying to
search through all the branches of
update for our particular command.
And I think it's going to be
more helpful to me to say okay,
each of these is running that thing, I can
just glance at the implementation once,
see that it doesn't have
any conditionals here.
It always returns to Cmd.none.
So I can very quickly answer the question
of what do each of those branches do just
by going one hop away.
So it's a trade-off.
It's not necessarily objectively correct
or incorrect to go either way, but
it's something worth thinking about when
you're splitting out helper functions.
Sometimes you want them to
be as narrow as possible,
other times it can actually potentially
save you time to do something like this.